and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out our
weekly email where we share actionable
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus resources and much much
more each and every monday start your
week off with a bang and sign up over at
business growth dot email
so that said my guest today is sylvia
coletto sylvia is the owner over at the
paid ad school they provide a
no-nonsense approach to paid advertising
tailored to each and every business
sylvia welcome to the show how you doing
i am very good thank you thank you for
having me uh i have been watching
the lives and the podcast for quite a
while so um yeah when i heard that you
were looking for for other people i
thought well why not i mean let me get
on the podcast
awesome and glad to have you on so we're
going to be chatting all things google
ads
exciting
very exciting especially i love it like
yeah you can see it from advice but i
love that i'm such a geek i'm really
sorry
nothing wrong with that nothing wrong
loving google ads yeah love it so with
that said we're going to talk all about
how businesses can win with google ads
we're going to be giving some actionable
strategies on how you can get stuck into
them set them up how to drive leads how
to drive revenue things to do things not
to do and all that good stuff so jumping
straight in from the top i guess
are google ads really a cost effective
way for businesses to drive inbound
leads or sales right now
that is a great first question
and the answer is it depends and i know
i know that people don't like that
answer
uh because well of course it's gonna be
um like you're gonna be asking well why
how why does it depend what does it
depend on
but the the reality is it does depend on
a lot of things it depends on on the
competitors that you've got at the
moment it depends on the stage of your
business if you uh it depends on their
niche it depends on the budget that
you've got on
and it also depends on everything else
that you're doing in the business how
solid
is the rest of of your marketing
because
usually what um
what businesses think is that the moment
they start running google ads all their
sales problems are going to be sold then
it's going to be this magic bullet and
everything is going to be great and
we're going to be selling lots of stuff
so in their mind google ads equals we're
going to make sales
and
if you start with that kind of
mindset and with that kind of belief
nine times out of ten you're gonna be
really disappointed because
making sales is not what google ads are
there for sure they contribute massively
but
google ass doesn't equal
sales so in short yes the answer is it
it depends
yeah because i guess the advert the main
job of the ad is actually getting
someone to click it
and then
directing them website
and for the website to be good enough to
answer all the questions to give all the
information so that either the person is
ready now and they get in touch or the
person is not ready now but
you're now firmly
in their mind as one of the alternatives
so wherever else they're going in the
customer journey maybe they have to
think about it maybe they they go to one
of your competitors maybe they they they
go and ask some friends
maybe whatever else they do
but they're always the option that now
you've given all the information so your
it is now the nurturing phase
to get eventually to an inquiry or or a
sale depending of course on the industry
some but if it's the case of e-commerce
it literally just they buy online if not
they have to reach out to you and
there's then all the sales process that
gets into the sale so
never as easy as
visit equals we're gonna make a lot of
money and that's the same for most
advertising
yeah exactly and that's that's the same
of most paid advertising right whether
it's a newspaper a tv ad whether it's
digital advertisement online
advertisement you can't guarantee
that every click through every visit
every view is going to turn into some
kind of lead or revenue so that's that's
a good starting point but perhaps we
should peel this back a bit yeah and
before we ask the question
google ads yes or no perhaps we should
discuss what should be in place
before we set up google ads
ie
what do you need going rock and rolling
right now before you switch on google
ads and are there any other marketing
strategies we should exhaust or try out
before we flick the switch and
spend the loading caching and give
google our hard-earned money
yes so i'm gonna start with the last one
first
the the the uh caveat to all this is
that if you
um
do not have at least a thousand pounds
to spend in advertising spend on on
google ads and this is just the initial
budget like a testing budget
consistently like month in month how and
if you
are afraid to spend those money because
you're afraid to lose them because it's
going to make a massive difference if
you lose the money as in if that money
spending advertising doesn't generate
anything immediately
do not run google ads
do anything else put the money somewhere
else where you know it's gonna work in
in the short term
but do not spend any money on
advertising that you're not comfortable
losing
i'm not saying that you are gonna lose
money i'm saying that if they if you're
already still in a testing phase if
you're just starting if you haven't
figured out everything about about the
customer journey the audience like the
ad copy etc
and you are going to
not see straight away the returns which
is what happens most of the time
if you're panicking at the idea of
losing that money
you're not ready like just don't don't
do it don't pull yourself through that
stress
having said that
if you are comfortable with with that
kind of spend initially
uh it's um there are a few things that
you have to do and i actually have a
a
a checklist of of these things because
it it's really important every time
somebody says to me hey what am i
supposed to do to get ready that i give
an exhaustive overview of what being
ready means
and
i'm just gonna briefly go through some
of them
for example
if you don't have a specific thing that
that you're trying to sell if you've got
a specific offer you can define it you
can say who is it for the benefits the
future state how
is the person going to benefit from what
you offer how is the situation gonna
change after working with you
and if you're not able to remove the
obstacles like the and you don't know
what they're worried about when they're
thinking about a purchase like this or
um
everything in in the journey that says i
think this is i think this could be good
for me but i'm not really sure
and you know those what those
um
uncertainties are
you're not gonna be able to write copy
or either on the ads or on the website
that reassures the person
that yeah i know that you're afraid
about these things i already know
because i know you because you're my
customer so i'm telling you straight
away this is the this is the reassurance
to your fears
these are the things that i know you
want to know
let me just give you the content
straight away in in instead of wondering
um so this is this is about the offer
then and this is more this is more um
then
[Music]
applies also to the customer journey so
do you know what your your your
specific customer does from the moment
they think oh my god i i need something
or i've got a problem to the moment when
they come to you for the solution what
what are all the things that they do
like to research and find out what they
need
and you should be able to say yes i know
exactly
not the the order because it's it's
different for every person but exactly
where they go
and my marketing is supposed to be
present
in those places
so if i know if i know that people are
on reddit be present with content
already if i know that it's instagram be
present with content on instagram so
it's not just the google ads it's about
google ads working with the rest of the
marketing if you don't have everything
else in place
marketing is an ecosystem if you don't
have everything else in place the google
ads by themselves are not i'm just not
gonna do the trick
because it's gonna make a big enough
difference
okay so let's let's talk about that what
we've just unpacked so far so
in terms of
so we've talked about and actually
putting the copy together so having
content on
the ads themself
and your website or your landing page
however you set it up
in terms of what you're directing to
kind of handling objections so common
reasons why people won't buy from you
and then
addressing those in your copy with how
you tackle them or how you make
prospects life better and how you're
gonna ultimately grow their business
whatever their main ambitions and goals
are
and then which makes sense as it can put
people's doubts at rest
and i guess show them that your product
or service is the one to
bring bring that to life and
make whatever they want to happen happen
and then you mention being present on
other channels so if they hang out on
reddit instagram and things like is that
just
as part of an overall marketing strategy
or is that because we then want to
perhaps look at retargeting ads so
what's what's the importance of that
well first of all because even if you're
not doing any any paid ads on those
channels the fact that you're present
where where your
potential customers hang out
is
reassuring to them
that you actually know them
and you know what they need
and
later down the line it's also
great practice for retargeting
because
if you say that traffic comes in from
google i great so these people right now
are searching for something that i offer
so there's a lot of intent in there
people these people go then to the
website but they don't they don't
inquire they don't buy
have we lost them not with not because
if you have google analytics and or any
analytics but i'm talking in particular
about google analytics
you know
and of course i also if you've got
conversion tracking on very important
you know that these people have come to
your website but haven't inquired or
bought from you
this is a specific audience that then
you can use
on other platforms
so when you're on facebook of course
which owns instagram and you can say hey
audience of people who went to this page
but didn't buy
let me retarget you with this type of ad
same thing goes for linkedin same thing
goes for pinterest same thing goes like
for the majority of of platforms so it
is a um
and of course the content is different
depending on the platform we can't just
um use the same thing for because the
use of the platform the types of people
on the platform they they are
different
and they should use in in a different
way it's social media after all it
should be used like differently but um
either way it's it's it's um it's the
benefit is twofold once that even if
you're not spending any money there
um
you are present where your customers are
and the second is the benefit of
retargeting later down the line
gotcha yeah and that makes sense right
so i suppose if you're on the b2b game
are we talking about kind of hanging out
on linkedin putting out useful useful
content there
so you're already
kind of in your buyers mind providing
actionable tips on whatever service you
offer and so you've kind of built up
some kind of authority there
um
and with that with those points said
is there anything else that we should
look to have in place before we actually
set the set the ads up themselves are
there any other yeah absolutely there's
a long list
but
yeah but uh i i mentioned google
analytics and i mentioned conversion
tracking um that
should go without saying
that
if you spend money on advertising and
and uh
the ad is great people click go to your
website but you then lose them because
you don't know what they're doing
it goes without saying that that's
that's not the best use of your money
and it should it's a terrible idea so
please don't do it
so even if i'm going as far as saying
that even if
you are not running any advertising
having conversion tracking on your
website properly set up is still a
fantastic use of your time and resources
because it's still gonna tell you what
people do and what meaningful actions
they take on the website and and then
where they've come from and google
analytics doesn't tell you that or at
least universal analytics doesn't tell
you that in its basic form you have to
set the second level up ga4 is a little
bit different and i'm battling with that
one right now as you heard last week
we've got some amazing news that now i'm
playing catch up
try trying to reset everything up and
in a slightly different way for some
it's better in some ways and worse in
other ways
so i don't know how i feel about it so
far it's
mixed reviews
i'm i'm completely on the side with the
analytics side of things so essentially
i mean if it's something you don't know
how to do for your own business then
just hire your web developer if you've
got one already or your google ad
specialist might be able to do it
exactly so that way you actually know
what's actually going on under the
bonnet of your website like you say
silver because otherwise you're
completely in the dark and i've said
this on previous episodes but we've
dealt with many customers or prospects
that have come to us and just didn't
have a clue on what was going on with
their website didn't know what was
converting whether perhaps they were
spending money on seo perhaps they're
spending on money on google ads or
retargeting or something else but they
just didn't know what was what traffic
that was bringing in how many of those
visitors were converting how many were
then converting from lead to then closed
one deal um
so just making sure you track all
elements of the funnel like you say from
visitor to
conversion whether that's a phone call
an email a form fill whatever that might
be and making sure that's all nicely set
up which was bringing me to the next
thing that i was gonna say it's um
especially make sure that this is your
room as well so i'm just saying what you
would say make sure that your website is
mobile responsive people i would i would
go in as far as say that design for
mobile first because he is it's gonna
put you in a lot of disadvantage if
if you don't have that
and
i know that the percentage of mobile
traffic varies from industry to industry
and lots of other factors but that
doesn't mean a bit
mobile use has skyrocketed and there's
no indication that that's gonna slow
down
so
if you are designing uh for the 2000s in
the chances are you you know where to be
found on on google search results
because google is gonna think that what
what the hell is going on here why am i
why am i seeing a tiny minuscule like
font on on a tiny screen where it's
supposed to be responsive but on top of
that also obviously click to call um
phone numbers
um
tracking
the basics like make sure that is very
obvious
how people can reach out to you wherever
you are on the website even if you keep
scrolling down on the same page can i
can you please make sure that on the
screen i can still see
where i can call you and where i can
send you an email or something because i
i i know i know it's
some people think is a little bit too
much but honestly there is there is a
great
book that has took the test of time in
website design
called don't make me think
and it
don't make me think like
you've got the option
to have something there
so that it's a lot easier for me to
reach out to you make it easy for me to
reach out to you please do that it
doesn't cost you anything
uh it's it plus it's your website it's
your 24 7 sales person make sure that it
works for you otherwise what's the point
in having it there
that's it
exactly if someone's taking the time to
search for if they're clicking a google
ad they're not always but they're
probably fairly doubt far down the sales
funnel especially if you've linked up
your search term to something that's
kind of sales relevant whether they're
searching for your solution and then if
your website makes it really difficult
to actually find a con how to contact
you or is it clear
exactly they're going to bounce off yeah
onto a competitor quite rightly said so
um
yeah making sure your website's up to
scratch and considering like you say a
mobile first design or at least making
sure it works smoothly on mobile tablet
and pc just uh goes without saying now
because like you say we see a lot of
sites that still look terrible on mobile
perhaps they're responsive but they're
just not great and
they're slow loading and they don't load
all the content quickly so just
making sure your website page speed and
mobile view is really crucial like you
said then um
yeah so that's great i mean moving
forward is there anything else we need
to get in in shape or check before we
talk about kind of more actionable on
actually setting up the ads
um
yes
one thing last but not least even though
it's it's not specifically google ads
but it's definitely related to it
um
please make sure that you
you you know what's happening during the
sales process you know where the
inquiries goes you know who picks it up
you know what's the process
from an inquiry to sale because if you
keep
say that you're doing a fantastic job
with google ads say that everything is
working well for you and you're
generating
um the conversions
that you're looking for and it's all
going fantastic and uh then one day
somebody calls you and says google ads
are terrible what are you doing
and and that's
because not because of google ads but
because like the inquiries then
dropped
between
being generated and the sale
because of something that happened in
the middle because your process is leaky
that's not google ads fault
but
the blame is gonna go
on on the google ads person or they pay
that person or marketing
because they didn't generate enough
inquiries where you know
you have to track your inquiries because
you have you because like it is
important because then you're showing
that look it this is the journey we
within the journey google ads is here
we have to do this to advance the the
sale we are generating this much but
then somewhere here in the middle
between the inquiry and the sale or
something is going drastically wrong so
it's almost it's useful also to pinpoint
um
to make sure like you're proven with
data that the fact that somebody's
feeling was that google as weren't
working isn't actually true
yeah such a good point i mean the amount
of companies we've seen it happen with
where perhaps we've
run seo perhaps we want ads perhaps
we've been working on their website but
their
process wasn't
airtight in the sense that perhaps
they'd get inquiries from their website
perhaps someone would fill out their
request a consultation form or request a
demo form and then they wouldn't reply
to them for like 24 hours 24 hours is
ridiculous to apply to an inquiry you
should recover your calendar
especially when most of your competitors
will probably be replying within five
minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes something
like that max um
so speed to lead like you say is is a
great one um chili piper who sponsored
the show and you've also got tools like
calendly literally allow people to book
time on a slot they're right there right
there on the website so if you can't be
asked to deal with an inquiry just book
a calendar tool otherwise make sure you
respond to your inquiries quickly or
it's not the google ad management
person's fault it's yours
sorry not sorry
cool that's good so those those are some
great points to make sure you've got
your site ship shape and your
processorship shape before you before
you start doing just before we um we
talk about kind of some best practices
of actually
creating ads creating the copy and
getting them live yeah
google ads versus seo
which is better
don't make me laugh
that's that is the most ridiculous
question that i've ever heard and and
then i keep hearing
and i see lots of lots of debate online
about no
seo is better no
paid ads is better
no you don't understand because well
guys the reality is
seo and ppc are are complementary
yeah they do two separate jobs
it's not it's not either or
they do two very different things
although if somebody is not um
that into marketing of course because
it's not their career maybe they focus
on something else um they might not know
what the difference is and the ma they
may not understand like they're thinking
well it kind of
they're trying to do the same thing
which is generate traffic and inquiries
for the company so they must be the same
thing
no they're not
they are
you need both
um
the the trouble is most of the time
companies especially the small ones
might not have
the budget
uh to do both so they they have to start
from with one and and expand to the
other and the question is which one
should you do first again it depends
it depends on the business it depends on
the budget it depends on the niche
maybe maybe seo is not that competitive
in that niche so you are gonna rank
pretty fast and and it's gonna be gray
or or maybe it is highly competitive so
so you need to show up in one of the
first three results straight away and
maybe use those search terms to inform
seo
it depends
yeah but yeah you need both uh they are
they're two separate things
yeah i think you and i are on similar
pages i mean i often compare
google ads to renting a house and seo to
being like a mortgage
so
the thing with google ads is like you
say they're great as long as you keep
paying your ads are going to show up
yeah and you're going to get that click
through
the moment you stop you're out on your
backside because your ads are no longer
showing just like renting a house
and mortgage long-term investment just
like seo you're
doing that work on your website off your
website to get that long-term page one
organic position on google but like you
say they can they can complement each
other it's just like the property market
you can rent you can buy you can
mortgage
seo and ppc can work together it also
gives you two bytes of the cherry it's
like you say if you've got ad running
and you've got an organic page one
you've got two chances to win the um
visitor through to your site or your
landing page so it's a great point
that's great that you think like that
because i hear um and i've talked with
lots of companies that are telling me
but
if i'm appearing number one organically
why would i pay that
oh my god
this is um
because i mean it does actually make
sense if you don't know how it works
you think why why would you just
but
it you have to think about about the way
google search results is now
so even if you are pop
even if you're number one seo
and you still have well not on all
searches but on on a
vast majority of searches you will have
two to four
paid
um
spots before you
and that on especially your mobile means
that you have to scroll three or four
times in order to get to the first
organic result yeah so
if uh
you have to hope that the
the first you have to hope that the paid
ads are all absolutely awful
and they don't really give the person
what they're looking for so they can
scroll down to the organic one because
um otherwise their attention is going to
be um caught by
paid first like on purpose because
google designed it to do that
so i'm not saying that then what's the
point in seo there's a there is a huge
point in seo but what i'm saying is
you're forgetting that there are some
paid results above organic
so make sure that you're there as well
yeah i think one of the one of the most
one of the biggest problems rather i
think
that comes into play when talking to
prospective customers or just business
people in general is taking your own ego
out of the question and realizing that
your marketing is not for you
it's for prospects that you want to do
business with and they
if they're not familiar with digital
marketing they're not going to know the
difference between a google ad and an
organic listing on google so they're
probably just going to click the top ad
whereas if they have some experience
they might think i'm going to skip the
ads and click the organic or they still
might click the ad and then click the
organic so you've got to take your own
opinion out of the equation test it out
and let you say see what see what works
for you it doesn't yeah so you
be in as many places as possible that's
that's the longest shot of it being as
easy as possible and actually say
something that is useful and relevant
and you are likely to get the click
because most google ads are not that
good
so let's let's take this let's provide
some actionables um which brings us on
nicely to
yeah let's talk about some best
practices really from kind of creating
the ads to coming up with the copy and
putting them live so perhaps you could
share some tips that work for you sylvia
that you've perhaps put into play for
client accounts
yes
so my best tip is don't spend too much
time
um building
a complex campaign
because
because your assumption
of what people are going to look for and
what i'm going to search for
might be right but might also be
terribly wrong
so start with two or three
long tail so three or more
words in the keyword
so three
two or three keywords that are
absolutely relevant to you
together with
three ads
in in any ad group one is responsive the
other two are text very important to
have the text ones because uh they're
gonna be phased out in june
right you won't be able to um create or
edit existing ones so when they we will
only move to responsive which means that
um
that is the type of ad that you provide
10 10 headlines and and uh and four
descriptions and then google is gonna
mix and match based on on on every
single search
in that case you won't have control of
exactly what the ad says the text that
you do
so make sure you create as many as
possible
with the keywords that you've got so
that you can still turn them on and off
when it will not be possible to create
or edit them anymore
just so that you have them there and the
best practice says that if you got a
keyword
and of course it has to be relevant
the keyword has to be in the ad the
keyword has to be on the landing page
it
make sure that the copy matches copy and
copy matches the keyword landing page
matches the copy of course the copy is
sure for the ads but
google has to recognize that there is
relevance between the keyword the the ad
and the landing page
the more
google sees that the more you get
something called a high quality score
which is a number from one to ten
that
google gives you your your ads and and
your keywords
to say hey this is a great ad
so this is likely to do really well well
done you know your audience your thought
about everything and in some cases
not predictable not a rule but the more
relevant it is the better it does and
usually the cheaper it is to get a
website visit of course that depends on
the industry because cheaper in in uh
insurance
is not the same as as cheap in in
e-commerce
so there are
certain keywords for for um law services
are are 60 or 70
pounds
some some clicks for for for example for
a campaign that i'm running at the
moment that the average cost per click
is is 40p
so it depends it massively varies but i
mean the relevance
um
is
preferred by google of course the higher
the relevance the better it is the more
the better click-through rate you're
gonna get
which it all it's all better
so
always remember to have this matching
theme
let's let's paint a picture let's give
an imaginary scenario that might just
bring this together quite nicely so i
know quite a lot of people tuning in are
probably in tech or sas businesses so
let's say that we run a
i don't know accountancy software
company um
and perhaps it targets i don't know smb
businesses okay so what might be some
best practices
for
a couple things i guess looking at the
actual search terms that we target with
the google ads and then
after that perhaps we can go on to
making sure that our actual ad copy so
the advert that appears in the search
listings
beats our competitors so then that the
prospect is more likely to click through
on ours go to our website rather than
our one of our competitors
okay
are you looking for the actual ad copy
on the spot no no no i'm not i'm just
looking for some some ideas of tips or
potential things that we should consider
um yes just so we we're not kind of
what i'm getting at i guess is that
we're not going down jamming a load of
keywords in that might be completely
irrelevant for our business yeah it
might just be someone searching for
perhaps let's say in the accountancy
space it might just be searching some
someone looking for advice
rather than buying intent search terms
if you saw what i mean
okay
so you said accountants if um yeah i
mean we can do another example that was
just something like an accountancy
software um was the one that popped into
it
for that so
um
let's let's say
let's take um let's take v80 returns
online right
so we've got we've got now the
opportunity for accounts to software's
like sage like xero etc to help you do
your your vbt returns on the platform
so um let's say you've got the keyword
um
vit returns right so vit returns is too
vague
right although you think this is an
amazing keyword but it's not because if
you look if you look at the it can be
great for seo don't get me wrong i don't
know but but for google ads is not
because um the moment you search for vat
uh return you're gonna see the
definition of vat return
um
you're gonna get the got the gov
page the hmrc page yeah and you're gonna
get all sorts of stuff that you're
thinking what the hell is this why am i
paying for this keyword the reason why
that's not good is because it's too
vague
there is no intent behind the keyword so
if all of a sudden you're saying
v80 returns online or just v80 returns
for
the self-employed
if you look i i promise you now if you
go and look for for that search the
return likely returns you articles of
people trying to teach you how to do it
yourself
some companies that have got articles
that are then have been ranking because
they're very useful but then they're
finalized to them actually getting an
inquiry if people don't want to do it
for themselves
so all of a sudden
because
that for this specifies the fact that
the person is that specific thing
and it's kind of trying to so figure out
how to do that thing or if it's too
complicated how to
give it to somebody else that is
something that you want to appear
uh in front of like that that's that you
won't appear in that search at the top
because the intent there is specified
so
um
when you when you think about keywords
that are one or two words
those keywords i promise you 99.9 of the
time are too vague
right and it's fine if you are a super
huge business
and you've got so much money that you
can throw in at ppc that you can spend
money there just for brand awareness
i'm happy for you if you've got too much
money
do it
but if if you are
if you have got a limited budget to work
with go down the intense route
so then your ads are going to be
something like okay vat returns uh for
the self-employed submit online
um and then
the descriptions are more like so these
are the benefits you we help you with
this is this we have to do we have 24 7
support you can have a dedicated account
manager and
like you show you show the benefits
but it would also be great to um
answer to the emotional side of it
so what is what is the
what is the outcome of this like of
course you're gonna save more time but
also you're gonna you're gonna be
supported you're gonna have this taken
care of for you
um so it's gonna take the stress away
that you maybe that you maybe done it
wrong that you may be some somewhere
down the line hmrc is going to knock at
the door and tell you hey you owe us x
amount of money that you didn't account
for
so it's a mixture of okay you've got the
keyword there you've got what you can do
for them but also the future state
how are they going to feel like what's
the what's the emotion
because that that is not
usually
taken into account no it's really
important because we've got a problem we
have a problem
vat returns oh my god i'm not an
accountant this is terrible how am i
going to do it
oh yeah scary for me that's why i hire
accountant to do it for me because i'm
terrible at math
so if i did that business would probably
go under um
so that's that's an interesting point
actually and something i see a lot when
i do any kind of google search perhaps i
need a product or services like you said
quite generic um ad copy just like we're
the award-winning at this so we're the
best services
we've been trading for 30 years and it's
like yeah yeah
yeah what are you gonna do for me
honestly i don't
i just don't care and it is but of
course there is no point in creating ads
that say all that and they're amazing
and then
and then the website the landing page
doesn't match that
because again
then you're gonna have this amazing
experience on the ads then they click on
on the website and they're thinking what
the hell is going on
so so google recognizes that and in one
of the columns that you've got um in in
the in the google ads platform
that talks about um the relevance of the
landing page then you're gonna see a
terrible uh below average there
right which means that the ad and the
keyword are not relevant to the landing
page which it then affects what we
talked about earlier on
the the quality the overall quality
score
which means it affects is a knock on
effect on everything else
now i talked about quality score twice
that doesn't mean that that's gospel
because i've got some keywords that have
got quality score of of
four or five out of ten
that are doing amazing
but what i'm saying is
because google doesn't know
doesn't know as much about the business
as we do that's why you always need the
human elements
but what i'm saying is if google gives
you an indication
that
there isn't much relevance between your
ad and the landing page
you should listen
and you should see okay which one is the
the least relevant is it the landing
page or is it the ad so fix one of the
two
yeah it's in your interest to have
average or above average
because regardless of what the number
of the quality score actually is forget
about that for a second but the
important thing is the relevance is the
fact that google recognizes that stuff
is is um
it's is connected and relevant to each
other because that makes the journey for
the customer
a lot better
okay
let's let's push this forward a bit as
as we come near to the end so in terms
of
let's say we've um let's carry on the
scenario we're talking about let's say
we've set up a campaign we've come up
with some ad copy
and we're testing out i know you
mentioned budget a little bit and it
like you say it can vary massively
depending on industries some is very
very low cost per click pence and some
is several pounds or higher
um
is there
in terms of actually assigning a budget
to the ads like a daily spend
is there a best practice for that should
we go of what google advises or how how
do you kind of especially if you're new
to google ads how do you realize all
right i'm going to set this daily budget
and if it produces x then i know i'm
doing what well
so
a good starting point for a campaign is
20 pounds a day
okay
and again
again it depends on the industry
but um if if we exclude for a second the
really expensive industries 20 pounds a
day should be um enough in the space of
two to three months
to have enough data to give you
meaningful um
like overview and and say okay this
campaign is working or is not working or
it's not working because let's make
these changes
and i'm stressing again
that
20 pounds is an indication so so don't
don't say oh this is the rule it's
always going to be 20 pounds to start
with no but in my experience
sure over the years that has been a good
starting point for you with the new
campaign
because the problem is with the new
campaign you don't have you don't have
data
and if you don't have data throwing
money at the wall
is not usually a good idea because
google is still in the learning phase
and they've got actually something
called the learning phase of a few days
where google is
trying and testing
what works and what doesn't so spending
a lot of money in that phase isn't
the best use of of of your money
now
google also has something called the
keyword planner
that is giving you projections of if you
spend x per day
it it gives you projections over a month
it's going to tell you okay so if you if
you spend this much in a day in a month
you're going to get um roughly this many
clicks
and you're going to spend this much
money
of course again that's a projection so
it's not
accurate all the time but google's got a
lot of data
so he is usually
very close to the truth
i've had a few instances where no it was
it was a lot cheaper and i've had one
instance where it was a lot more
expensive yeah they are usually they are
usually pretty accurate um
on that and you you're gonna get you're
gonna see this this graph that is gonna
say okay if you spend this much and then
you see the graph going up
and at one point you're gonna see the
curve flatten
whatever whatever is is the the daily
budget at that point where the curve
flattens is where if you're gonna spend
more money it's not gonna make a
meaningful difference
so google gives you that data so
um at the beginning
go and check it out because it's useful
yeah definitely i mean google keyword
plan i'd like to say if you can get that
data on what the rest cost per click is
going to be and get some intel around
that that's going to be helpful so you
can make it informative
everybody's on the same page that it is
a projection
and is not
spot on what's going to happen
is it is a great it's a great thing to
do um and i'm saying this because i've
had uh quite a few instances where
even though
it was said multiple times this is a
projection
the client came back and said
oh but you said we were gonna get this
no
i said multiple times
and i've even got emails that use the
word
projections not
gospel
so
so yes um
don't take anything as gospel guys
because
there's always the exception you just
have to go with data
yeah well i mean nothing in marketing or
advertising is guaranteed because we're
dealing with humans we're not we're not
dealing with robots clicking through and
buying everything every single click or
every single view or anything like that
so that's i wish like honestly if we
were we'd make a lot more money
it was that easy i would be rich by now
and i wouldn't
we'd be over in the bahamas sipping a
cocktail instead of doing podcasts i
would have gone around the world
maybe next year but um
is there a certain time frame that you
should say look i'm going to give this
campaign
x days x weeks yes and if it doesn't
give me the return or the amount of
leads the amount of sales i'm hoping for
then i need to make some significant
change yes
so
within the the initial phase i'm saying
i'm saying the average is 90 days so
that's three months but within those 90
days uh the person managing your
campaign is or is supposed to have done
testing already
so
you you start with an assumption within
a few days if if you're spending enough
of course and you're getting data you
start to see if the assumptions of this
is what people are searching for is
correct or not
then from there you review your search
terms
your search terms are going to tell you
if you're on the right track or not
if you're not you have to make changes
to to to the keywords
and you're also going to have a look at
the ads that you've got running because
as i said you need at least three
because it does a b and c testing
um
and
which ones are which ones are generating
the most clicks with uh all the highest
click-through rate and wife can you
isolate that can you
can you make an educated guess
try and create another version of the ad
that
tries to improve on the best performing
and
if within
90 days of
doing all these adjustments
the campaign
is still not returning what you expected
to return bearing in mind that you have
to make sure your expectations are
realistic
very important to say
that is the sign that you either have
got it completely wrong
and you should turn the campaign off
or or there is something that has to be
done on the landing page
because if you got the traffic
and the traffic is relevant
then the next step is
what's happening on the landing page
yep
yeah yeah so where you're actually
sending visitors to
they they might be dropping off
what's on the landing page do you have
have you got all the content that you
need
is it designed in a way that makes sense
is it easy for people to inquire what is
missing is it's on we're not doing
something that the competitors are doing
bearing in mind that i'm not really
advocating for copy what the competitors
are doing but if you're going on their
website and they're doing something
really clever
that you're not doing
i'm not saying copy it i'm saying
can you do something similar can you do
it better does it make sense for you
because maybe it's part of their
strategy and their strategy is not yours
so it's not just blindly copying them
but
anything that can make
the conversion easier
yeah and i guess that's where the
analytics come into play a little bit as
well so actually as well as doing all
these tips that you've shared with us on
today's episode also looking at your
website stats so how high the bounce
rate is so if someone's just coming onto
the home page and you see like 90
percent of people are bouncing off
within a couple seconds then your
landing page or your homepage your
website's not hitting the mark and it's
probably not giving people what they
need straight away whether that's your
headline or your call to actions or
perhaps they just don't believe that you
can help them fix their problem then you
know that your messaging or your design
or perhaps your website is not suited to
mobile so something needs drastic change
in order for you to actually appeal to
these these people that are clicking
your ads so that's a great point
yeah
lots of things to think about that's it
life's a game is building a website and
so is managing ads
with that said i think we've covered
some good ground i think we've covered
some great um
great points around kind of setting up a
campaign what needs to be in place
beforehand what you need to consider on
your website what you to consider on
your landing pages so um with that
sylvia thanks very much come on the show
no problem really enjoyed the chat um do
tell us more about how anyone tuning in
can get in touch with you connect with
you or the best way to reach out
yes so um
i am a daily user of linkedin so uh the
fastest way to to find out about me and
what i do is is linkedin i publish
content every day so you're gonna get a
good feel for
um
basically it's going to be a short
replica of everything i said today and
the style is the same so the the
education side of it is the same
and um i have published a book
and it's called yes guess what you can
guess the name are you ready for paid
ads so that is
pretty much um a
longer version much longer version of
what we talked about today and
i'm actually um starting a series of
workshops i'm gonna do a monthly
workshops on
google ads it's two and a half hours
long
the first one is on the 29th of of march
so coming up next week and just talking
about again more in depth about then the
things you need to think about before
setting up the ads
and also a hands-on so with the workbook
and taking actually the time to do the
work and and that then becomes an action
plan for you
um to set up ads
for your business so
um
my profile has got all this information
so if you
if you have heard about something that
you know you think it's a little bit
interesting
um
just reach out and and and i'll make
sure to to send you throughout the links
thank you
awesome all right sylvia thanks very
much we'll put all those links over on
the show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
thanks once again for coming on enjoy
the chat
cool and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode be sure to hit subscribe
on your podcast channel of choice or
perhaps leave us a quick rating we share
actual marketing tips each and every
week without the bs to help you grow
your business and grow your revenue and
with that we should catch you on the
next one cheers